Abstract—The current revolution in the world of communica␂tion and information technology are geared by the Internet of
Things and cloud computing services. This offers more oppor␂tunities for the development of a new system aimed mainly at
facilitating people’s lives and eliminating the traditional complex␂ities facing them. These drives have led to further development
in the world of the Internet of Things, linking them with cloud
computing, making them smarter and more sophisticated and
available to all. In this paper, we discuss the integrating of the
Internet of Things with cloud computing and how it used in
various business sectors to be more interactive, intelligent and
serving the community. Based on a systematic review, a number
of perspectives from academia and industry have been drawn to
establish a safe and intelligent community.
Index Terms—Internet of Things, Cloud Computing, Scalabil␂ity, High-Performance, Multimedia.
I. INTRODUCTION
Many systems and applications collect a huge amount
of data to help in provide its services better. One of the
most important advantages of big data is that it contributes
to provides a deeper understanding of customers and their
requirements, and this helps in making decisions within the
organization in a more effective way based on the information
extracted from customer databases, thus increasing efficiency
and profit and reducing losses in many applications like
marketing, product distribution, sales and banking [1],
telecommunications, and health-care [2], etc.
There is no rule about exactly what is the size, or what
is the kind of data be considered big. However, what really
can define it, are the amount of data, tools, and techniques,
devices collect these data, all of that need to work together and
be able to process on these data. When we say big data, we
mean cloud computing, which means dealing with this huge
digital data via the Internet without having to deal with it on
the actual devices.
Internet of Things (IoT) include the interconnected devices
that we use to perform the processes and services that support
our way of life and make it easier. Another component stands
to help IoT succeed is cloud computing, which acts as a
sort of front end. Cloud computing is an ever bigger and
popular service that offers several benefits to IoT and its
dependence on the concept of allowing all users to perform
computing tasks using all services delivered completely over
the Internet [3]. Cloud computing is an intelligent model for
big data storing and analyzing, while IoT is exciting on its
own. The real invention will come through joining IoT with
cloud computing. The combination of cloud computing and
IoT will enable new controlling services and more powerful
on the processing of sensory data streams. However, cloud
computing has been activated in connection with the Internet
of Things and has been used in many areas of life. Also,
cloud and IoT are joined together to inspect the various
technologies to make smart homes, smart e-health services
[2], smart cities, smart grids, smart buildings, etc.
Cloud-based IoT model describes a standard, concise, and
scalable solution for supporting IoT applications, and the
deployments of IoT applications on the cloud, however, they
are facing some challenges generated from the economic
side, technical limitations, social concerns, and administration
issues. On the other hand, a cloud computing system may
not be always needed to have an implementation for all IoT
solutions [4]. For example: 1) Data generated by things may
only be valuable for a group of users who are closely located.
2) Existing infrastructures may still be good and scale-up could
be achieved by local resource sharing. 3) Local data storage
is already enough.
Cloud computing is expected to support a wide range of
IoT applications, such as sharing data between two devices
(device-to-device), cognitive assistance, editing and sharing
videos, and cars and planes systems. In addition to that, there
is a need to consider different aspects of cloud computing
technologies such as the networks of the cloud with IoT,
cloud-based IoT system with development issues, and dealing
with big-data and manage it. Hence, there is an adequate need
to check the compatibility of cloud computing technologies
over IoT. Strong tests are required to be done for cloud-based
technology with IoT protocols, architecture, standards, and
system design and its integration with the existing standards,
architectures, and protocols [5].
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section
II represents the background. Internet of Things and cloud
computing integration provided in section III. Section IV
represents the cloud of things issues. Finally, the conclusion
is provided in section V.
