Abstract. Cloud computing has evolved to emerge the most topical IT paradigm in recent times. Cloud computing is rapidly 
transforming the IT landscape. On a pay-as-you-use basis, cloud consumers can access resources, applications and 
infrastructure provided by cloud providers. Such access could be in form of applications already deployed by cloud providers 
for use by the cloud users. It could be in form of the capability to develop and deploy user applications using services of a 
cloud provider. In addition, massive storage infrastructure is available for database and data supplied by the user. The cloud 
has several unique architectures and many more are still evolving. The primary ones are the SaaS, PaaS and the IaaS that can 
be deployed on private, public, community and hybrid clouds. This paper examines present developments in the cloud 
computing architecture and presents guidance for additional research. Papers published in journals, conferences, white papers 
were analyzed. The objective of this present work is to identify, examine and explain the current trends and development in 
cloud computing architecture. However, only 13% of the papers examined discussed Others-as-a-Service, while only 26% of 
the papers reviewed considered issues relating to the major actors involved in cloud computing. This will beneficial to cloud 
providers, users, and researchers alike 
Index Terms – Cloud Computing, architecture, PaaS, SaaS, IaaS.
I. INTRODUCTION
LOUD computing is a model for enabling 
universal, on-demand and convenient network
access to a shared pool of configurable computing 
resources (e.g., networks, servers, storage, applications, 
and services) that can be rapidly provisioned and released 
with minimal management effort or service provider 
interaction” [1]. Cloud computing can be seen as network␂enabled services that provide scalable, QoS guaranteed 
services on demand that can be accessed over the Internet 
[2]. Cloud computing allows for sharing of resources over 
the Internet. These resources are shared using 
infrastructure provided by a cloud service provider (CSP). 
The cloud consumer accesses the resources, which are 
scalable and ubiquitous, on-demand as–you–use and pay–
as–you–go basis. Cloud computing also enables a level of 
abstraction between the required computing resource and 
the underlying architecture such as storage, network and 
services [2]. 
Cloud computing encompasses the client and server, and 
the three primary service delivery models. The cloud client 
comprise the software or hardware abstraction layer used 
for connection to the cloud services. Servers are used by 
the CSPs to provide the three primary services delivery 
types. There are several service delivery types, but the 
primary ones are Platform–as–a–Services (PaaS), 
Infrastructure–as–a–Service (IaaS), and Software–as–a–
Service (SaaS). PaaS provides a computing platform for 
use by the consumer through the infrastructure provided by 
a cloud service provider [3]. The user can develop, test and 
deploy an application using a CSP’s platform. The user 
does not have to install software required for this purpose.
In IaaS, the CSP provides infrastructure in the form of 
servers, storage and computing resources for the consumer.
The advantage of this is that the user does not have to 
invest in expensive IT infrastructure. Services are scalable 
and on–demand. In addition, the customer utilizes and pays 
for what is consumed. In SaaS, a CSP provides an 
application over the Internet for use by a customer [3]. In 
effect, the user does not have to purchase or install such 
applications. This provides a network–based access to 
software that is managed from a centralised location, and 
the customer has remote access [3]. There are four types of 
cloud development models: private, public, community 
and hybrid clouds. Private clouds are provided within an 
enterprise data centre. The organization has control over 
the cloud infrastructure and it is secure. Public clouds are 
services provided over the Internet by CSP using their own 
infrastructure. Scalable services are accessed on a pay-as␂you-go (PAYG) payment model. Public clouds are 
considered less secured. Community cloud is cloud 
operated by several organizations possibly engaged in 
similar activities. The infrastructure could be hosted by a 
third party with an agreed policy in place for usage [3]. The 
purpose of this paper is to discuss cloud computing 
architecture. The paper takes a look at the primary 
abstraction layers on which services are offered. In 
addition, advances in the industry in terms of cloud 
computing architecture will be highlighted. The remaining 
part of the paper is organized as follows: Section 2 deals 
with related work. Section 3 will focus on the main cloud 
architecture. Section 4 discuss the industry trend in cloud 
architecture. Section 5 concludes the paper and suggests 
future work.

